you
this lecture is about the lady in the
ass Raptor rating analysis for opinion
mining and sentiment analysis in this
lecture we're going to continue
discussing opinion mining and the
sentiment analysis in particular we're
going to introduce Layton the aspect of
rating analysis which allows us to
perform detailed analysis of reviews
with overall ratings so firstly
motivation here are two reviews that you
often see on internet about a hotel and
you see some overall ratings in this
case both reviewers have given five
stars and of course there are also
reviews that I'm text now if you just
look at these reviews it's not very
clear whether a hotel is good for its
location or for its service and it's
also unclear why a reviewer like this
hotel so what we want to do is to
decompose this overall rating into
ratings on different aspects such as
value rooms location and service so if
we can decompose the overall rating into
ratings on these different aspects then
we can obtain more detailed
understanding of the reviewers opinions
about the hotel and this would also
allow us to rank hotels along different
dimensions such as valuable rooms bring
general such detailed understanding will
reveal more information about users
preferences reviewers preferences and
also we can understand better how
reviewers view this hotel from different
perspectives now not only do we want to
infer these as factor ratings we also
want to infer the aspect of weight so
some reviewers may care more about
values as a positive service and that
would be a case like what's shown on the
left for the weight distribution where
you can see a lot of weight is placed on
but others might care mob of service and
therefore they might place more weight
on service than very now the reason why
this is also important is because do you
think about a five star on valium it
might still be very expensive if the
reviewer cares a lot about service right
for this kind of service this price is
good
so the reviewer might give it a five
star but if reviewer really cares about
the value of the hotel then the five
star most likely would mean really
cheaper prices so in order to interpret
the ratings on different aspects
accurately we also need to know these
aspect weights when they are combined
together we can have a more detailed
understanding of the opinion so the task
here is to get these reviews and the
overall ratings as input and then
generate both the s factor ratings
decompose aspect ratings and the aspect
of weights as output and this is a
problem called latent aspect rating
analysis so the task in general is given
a set of review articles about the topic
with overall ratings and we hope to
generate three things one is the major
aspects commented on in the reviews the
second is the ratings on each aspect
such as value and room or service and
third is the relative weights placed on
different aspects by the reviewers and
this task has a lot of applications so
if we can do this and we would enable a
lot of applications I just listed some
here and later I will show you some
results and for example we can do
opinion based entity ranking we can
generate as factor level opinion summary
we can also analyze reviewers
preferences compare them or compare
their preferences on different hotels
and we can do personalized
recommendation of products so of course
the questions
how can we solve this problem now as in
other cases of these advanced topics we
won't have time to really cover the
technique in detail but I'm going to
give a pretty basic introduction to the
technique developed for this problem so
first step we are going to talk about
how to solve the problem in two stages
later we're going to also mentioning
that we can do this in the unified model
now take this review with the overall
rating as input what we want to do is
first we're going to segment the aspects
so we're going to figure out what words
are talking about location what words
are talking about the room conditioning
etc so with this we would be able to
obtain aspect segments in particular
we're going to obtain the count of all
the words in each segment and this is
denoted by C sub I of W and D this can
be done by using seat words like
location and room or price and to
retrieve the relevant the segments and
then from those segments we can further
mine correlated words with these seed
words and that would allow us to segment
the text into segments discussing
different aspects but of course later as
we'll see we can also use public models
to do the segmentation but anyway that's
the first stage where we would obtain
the counts of words in each segment in
the signal stage which is called later
narrating regression we're going to use
these words and their frequencies in
different aspects to predict the overall
ready and this prediction happens in two
stages in the first stage we're going to
use the send in the weights of these
words in each aspect to predict the
aspect rating so for example if in the
discussion of location you see a word
like amazing many many times and it has
a high weight for example here 3.9 then
it would increase the as frustrating for
location but another word like a far
which is the neck
wait if it's mentioned many times and
will decrease the rating so the
expectorating it's assumed that will be
a waiter combination of these water
frequencies where the weights are the
sentiment weights on the world now of
course these sentiment weights might be
different than for different aspects so
we have for each aspect a set of
sentiment weights as shown here and
that's in order by beta sub I and W in a
signal stage or in a signal step we're
going to assume that the overall rating
is simply a weighted combination of
these aspects ratings so we're going to
assume we have aspect weights in order
to PI of R sub I of T and this will be
used to take a weighted average of the
aspect ratings which are denoted by R
sub I of D and we're going to assume the
overall rating is simply a weighted
average of these aspect readings so this
setup allows us to predict the overall
rating based on the observed award
frequencies so on the left side you will
see all these observed information the R
sub D and count but on the right side
you see all the information that were
interested in is actually latent so we
hope to discover them now
this is a typical case of generative
model where we would embed the
interesting variables in a generative
model and then we're going to set up a
generation probability for the overall
rating given the observe the world and
then of course then we can adjust these
parameter values including betas ours
and alpha eyes in order to maximize the
probability of the data in this case the
conditional probability of the observed
already given the document so we have
seen such cases before in
or piace where we predict the text data
but here we're predicting the rating and
the parameters of course are also very
different but if you can see if we can
uncover these parameters that would be
nice because our sub I of D is precisely
the aspect ratings that we want to get
and these are the composer ratings on
different aspects alpha sub by D is
precisely the aspect weights that we
hope to get as a by-product that will
also get the beta vector and these are
the s factor specific assignment weights
of words so more formally the data we
are modeling here is a set of review
documents with overall ratings and each
review documents removed by a team and
the overall rating is denoted by R sub T
and then is pre segmented into K aspect
segments and we're going to use the C
sub I of W and D to denote the count of
word W in inspector segment I of course
it's zero the war doesn't occur in this
segment now the model is going to
predict the rating based on D so we are
interested in the conditional
probability of R sub T given D and this
model is set up as follows so R sub T is
assuming that you follow a normal
distribution with the mean that the
notes actually await the average of the
aspect ratings R sub I of D as shown
here this normal distribution has a
variance of data square now of course
this is just what our something the
actual rating is not necessarily
anything this way but as always when we
make this something we have a formal way
to model the problem and that allows us
to computer interesting quantities in
this case the aspect ratings and aspect
of weights now the aspect rating as you
see on the second line is assuming that
to be a weighted sum of these weights
where the weight is your segment weight
so
as I said the overall rating is assumed
to be a weighted average of aspect
ratings now this alpha values alpha sub
I of D or tenuity together by alpha
vector and that depends on D is the
document specific weights and we're
gonna assume this factor itself is drawn
from another buck vary the calcium
distribution with mean denoted by a new
factor and covariance matrix Sigma yeah
now so this means when we generate our
overall rating we're going to first draw
a set of alpha values from this
multivariate Gaussian prior distribution
and once we get these other values we're
going to use the weighted average of
aspect ratings as the mean here to use
the normal distribution to generate the
overall rating now the inspector rating
as I just said is a sum of the same and
weights of words in the aspect note that
here the send when the weights are
specifically two aspects so beta is
indexed by I and that's for aspect and
that gives us way to model different
segments of a world this is neither
because the same word might have
positive sentiment for inspector but
negative sentiment for another inspector
it's also useful to them see what
premise we have here but I just said
that the beta sub I and W gives us a
aspect the specific assignment of W so
obviously that's one of the important
parameters but in general we can see we
have these parameters the beta values
the Delta and then the MU and Sigma so
next the question is how can we estimate
these parameters and so we collectively
denote all the parameters
lambda here now we can as usual use the
maximum like arrest made them and this
will give us the settings of these
premises that would maximize observed
observe ratings conditioned on the they
are respecting reviews and of course
this would then give us all the useful
variables that we are interested in
computing so now more specifically we
can now once we estimate families we can
easily compute the estart rating for a
specter i our sub I of D and that's
simply to take all the words that
occurred in the segment I and then pick
their counts and then multiply that by
the Sandman weight of each work and take
a sign so of course this count would be
zero for words that are not occurring in
the aspect I and that's why we can take
some of all the words in the vocabulary
now what about the aspect weights and
other sub I of D well it's not part of
our parameter right so we have to use
that Bayesian inference to compute it
and in this case we can use the maximum
a-posteriori to compute this alpha value
basically we're going to maximize the
product of the prior of alpha according
to our assume that multivariate Gaussian
distribution and the likelihood in this
case the likely is the probability of
generating is observed overall rating
given this particular alpha value and
some other parameters as you see here so
for more details about this model you
can read this paper cited here